*quickfonts.txt*	Favorite Font Manager		February 7, 2002

Authors:  T. Scott Urban  <tsurban@HORMELattbi.com>

	  (remove HORMEL from my email first)

0. DESCRIPTION						*quickfonts*

This plugin manages a list of favorite fonts, and allows you to swich quickly
between those fonts.  This is useful if you normally like to use several
fonts, for example, if your eyes get tired looking at a small font, or someone
comes to look at code on your monitor, or your vision is blurry from a night
of heavy drinking, you can quickly switch to a larger font, and the go back to
a smaller font when the conditions allow it.

Fonts are read from a file specified with the global variable g:quickFontsFile
or the default file $HOME/.vimquickfonts if that variable doesn't eists.  At
vim start up, the file is read, if it doesn't exist your list will be empty.
On vim quit, your list of favorites is written to the file.  Commands are
supplied to completely manage this font list, but you can also edit the font
list with vim, in which case, when you save, your list will automatically be
reloaded from the saved file.

==============================================================================
1. CONTENTS						*quickfonts-contents*

	0. DESCRIPTION ..................: |quickfonts|
	1. CONTENTS......................: |quickfonts-contents|
	2. QUICKFONTS INSTALLATION ......: |quickfonts-install|
	3. QUICKFONTS CONFIGURATION ......:|quickfonts-config|
	4. QuickFonts Usage..............: |quickfonts-usage|
	     SWITCHING FONTS ............: |quickfonts-switching|
	     FONTS INFORMATION ..........: |quickfonts-info|
	     ADDING A FONT ..............: |quickfonts-add|
	     DELETING A FONT ............: |quickfonts-delete|
	     RELOADING THE LIST .........: |quickfonts-reload|

==============================================================================
2. QUICKFONTS INSTALLATION				*quickfonts-install*

To install, un-gzip the package, then untar in your $HOME/.vim or $VIMRUNTIME
directory.

==============================================================================
3. QUICKFONTS CONFIGURATION				*quickfonts-config*

There are two configuration variables available with this plugin:

Favorite font file					*quickFontsFile*

Set this variable in your vimrc to the file path and name of the file where
you want to store your favorite fonts.  If this variable isn't set, the
default font file locatin is "$HOME/_vimquickfonts" on Windows machines and
"$HOME/.vimquickfonts" otherwise.  If you are a Windows user and you don't
want to have this file saved at C:_vimquickfonts, make sure you have a $HOME
environment variable or use the 'quickFontsFile' variable to sepecify another
file.

Disable use of xwininfo					*quickFontsNoXwininfo*
							*quickfonts-xwininfo*

On X-based systems (Unix and others), the fonts are sorted with the help of
the external program 'xwininfo'.  This allows the font height and width to be
calculated, and is used because of I know of know way to do it entirely within
vim.  If you don't want this program to be called, and instead would rather
just sort on the font width (much less pleasing results, IMHO), you can define
this variable in your vimrc to disable this feature.  Reasons you might want
to do this include the fact this system call can be slow on some systems, or
might not even be available on others.

==============================================================================
4. QuickFonts Usage					*quickfonts-usage*

SWITCHING FONTS						*quickfonts-switching*
							*QuickFontSmaller*
							*QuickFontBigger*

Switching to the next smaller font (or just the previous one if they aren't
sorted) can be acheived with the command:

:QuickFontSmaller

or the mapping

Alt-< - that is, hold the Alt-key, the Shift-key, and press the ,/< key

Switching to the next bigger font (or just the previous one if they aren't
sorted) can be acheived with the command:

:QuickFontBigger

or the mapping

Alt-> - that is, hold the Alt-key, the Shift-key, and press the ,/< key

You can make your own mappings like this:

map <keys> :QuickFontBigger<CR>

Attempts to switch to a font off either end of the list will result in a
warning.

FONTS INFORMATION					*quickfonts-info*

You can get information about your current Favorite Fonts with the command:

:QuickFontInfo

Which will produce output similar to this (depending on your system):

num area wid  name
* 0  136   8  -sony-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-*-120-*-*-c-*-jisx0201.1976-0
  1  300  12  -sony-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-*-170-*-*-c-*-jisx0201.1976-0
  2  375  15  -adobe-courier-medium-r-normal-*-*-240-*-*-m-*-iso8859-9
  3 1710  30  -adobe-courier-medium-r-normal-*-*-360-*-*-m-*-iso8859-9

The * in the first column indicates which font is the selected font.  The next
two fields are for character area and width in pixels.  This information is
used for sorting the list, if implemented for your system. The last field is
the font name.

ADDING A FONT						*quickfonts-add*
							*QuickFontAdd*

You can add a font to your favorites list with the command:

:QuickFontAdd *

or

:QuickFontAdd

The first form opens the gui font selection dialog (if available for your
gui). Once you select a font from there, and there are no errors, that font
will be added to the list.

The second form adds the current value of the |'guifont'| setting.  If this is
setting is empty or '*', you won't add anything.  In that case, you can use
the first form or set your 'guifont' independently with ":set guifont=*", for
example.

DELETING A FONT						*quickfonts-delete*
							*QuickFontDel*

You can delete a font with the command:

:QuickFontDel

or

:QuickFontDel <num>

The first form deletes the currently selected font.

The second form deletes the font with index given by the single argument.

Range is checked on this command, and if you delete the currently selected
font via either method, the previous font in your list will then be selected.

RELOADING THE LIST					*quickfonts-reload*
							*QuickFontReload*

If you make changes to your font list that you don't want to save your font
list file, you can use the command:

:QuickFontReload

To reload the file, discard your changes, and ensure the file won't be
overwritten.

vim:tw=78:ts=8:ft=help
